---
title: Repositories
aliases: ["getting_started/repositories"]
---

Humio organizes data into _Repositories_ (or _Repos_). Each repository has its
own set of users, dashboards, saved queries, parsers, etc.

A repository is a container for data with associated storage.
Often you will have one physical repository per project or system. But use-cases
vary based on your data volume, user permissions and many other factors.

On a repository you can control retention and create
[parsers]({{< relref "parsers/_index.md" >}}) to parse incoming data.

When [sending data to humio]({{< relref "sending-data/_index.md" >}}) it will end up in a repository.

## Views

The repository has a close cousin called [Views]({{< relref "views.md">}}).
Views are similar to the views you may know from SQL databases.

Views lets you search across multiple repositories. They also have user management and search filters, making it possible to define which users can see what data.
This is how fine grained access controls are implemented in Humio

You can search directly in a repository or search using a
view.
 Using a view can give added benefits, e.g.:

- Joining data from multiple repositories in a single search
- Restrict results to a subset of a repository's data
- Redacting sensitive fields
- Keeping find-grained control of data retention

You can read more about views in [their doc section]({{< relref "views.md">}}).  

## The Sandbox

All accounts have a special _private_ repository called [the sandbox]({{< relref "the-sandbox.md" >}}). Unlike other
repositories you cannot add additional users or change retention. You can use the sandbox for testing things out
or as your main repo if your needs are simple.

{{% notice cloud %}}
If you are using a the free version of [Humio Cloud](https://cloud.humio.com) the sandbox
is your main storage repository and is where you send all your logs and events. You can
[use views to make your data easier to navigate]({{< relref "views.md#per-service" >}})
if you have logs from several sources.
{{% /notice %}}



## Special repositories

Humio provides a few repositories by default to help you monitor your Humio instances.


### The humio-audit repository

humio-audit is a system repository that keep the [audit trail]({{< relref "configuration/audit-logging/_index.md">}}) of the actions users take in Humio.

Special access restrictions apply: A user can get access to search
this repo using the same set of rules as any other repo. But any user
who does not have access through those rules can search this repo
while being restricted to searching only the events that has said user
as the "actor" that did the event.


### The humio-metrics repository

humio-metric is a system repository that holds metrics generated by Humio itself. There are metrics on both system-wide scope, such as total number of live queries active, and metrics for each repository.

Special access restrictions apply: A user can get access to search
this repo using the same set of rules as any other repo. But any user
who does not have access through those rules can search this repo,
being restricted to searching only the events that directly relates to
other repos, that said user has acces to. You can thus not see what
other repos may exist in Humio through this access, and neither can
you query the "global" metrics without being a member of the repo.

The metrics logged into this repository are also available on JMX and
Prometheus endpoints provided those are enabled. By default those
listeners are disabled, whereas logging to this repository is always
enabled.


### The humio repository

humio is a system repository that holds debug logs generated by Humio
internally.  It also has a few built-in dashboards to help you quickly
ascertain the state of you Humio cluster or server.

